>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 8:
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS INTENSIFY
SEEKING A SOLUTION TO THE
CONFLICT IN UKRAINE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, FROM
FRANCE, AN INCREASE IN ANTI
SEMITIC INCIDENTS HAVE SOME JEWS
FEELING UNDER SIEGE AND OTHERS
THINKING ABOUT LEAVING.
>> WE THINK WE ARE FRENCH PEOPLE
BEFORE TO BE JEWISH, BUT NO, WE
ARE JEWISH.
>> Stewart: AND THE POWERBALL
JACKPOT HAS ALREADY SURPASSED
$450 MILLION, WHAT THAT MAY MEAN
FOR EDUCATION IN YOUR STATE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALLISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING, THANKS
FOR JOINING US.
I'M ALISON STEWART IN FOR HARI
SREENIVASAN.
THERE'S A SIGN OF PROGRESS IN
TALKS TO REBUILD THE FAILING
PEACE PLAN BETWEEN RUSSIA AND
UKRAINE.
LEADERS OF GERMANY AND FRANCE
ARE NOW PLANNING WHAT THEY CALL
INTENSIVE TALKS IN MINSK ON
WEDNESDAY.
THEY HOPE TO CREATE A NEW
PACKAGE OF MEASURES TO STEM
FIGHTING IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
THE PREVIOUS PEACE DEAL FELL
APART IN SEPTEMBER.
BEFORE THE MINSK MEETING, GERMAN
CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL WILL
SIT DOWN WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
TOMORROW.
WHILE THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF
A RIFT BETWEEN THE U.S. AND ITS
EUROPEAN ALLIES OVER WHETHER TO
ARM UKRAINIAN FIGHTERS.
THIS MORNING, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY SAID LEADERS ARE
UNITED IN FINDING A DIPLOMATIC
SOLUTION.
>> PRESIDENT PUTIN'S GOT TO MAKE
THE DECISION TO TAKE AN OFF RAMP
AND WE HAVE TO MAKE IT CLEAR TO
HIM THAT WE ARE ABSOLUTELY
COMMITTED TO THE SOVEREIGNTY AND
INTEGRITY OF UKRAINE NO MATTER
WHAT.
BOTH EUROPEAN AND UKRAINIAN
LEADERS ARE PUSHING FOR GREATER
AUTONOMY IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
BUT RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN WANTS KIEV TO CEDE BROAD
POWER TO THE REBELS, ALLOWING
MOSCOW TO MAINTAIN INFLUENCE IN
THE REGION.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE U.S. IS
INVOLVED IN TALKS WITH IRAN OVER
LIMITING ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER MOHAMMAD
JAVAD ZARIF SAID TODAY HE
EXPECTS THE U.S TO LIFT ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS QUICKLY IF NEGOTIATORS
CAN REACH A DEAL.
BUT SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY
SAID THIS MORNING BOTH SIDES
HAVE TO AGREE ON SOME
FUNDAMENTAL DECISIONS OVER THE
NEXT FEW WEEKS, OTHERWISE, HE
SAYS, IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO
EXTEND THE TALKS ANY FURTHER.
>> EITHER YOU MAKE THE DECISIONS
TO PROVE YOUR PROGRAM IS A
PEACEFUL ONE, OR IF YOU'RE
UNABLE TO DO THAT, IT MAY TELL A
STORY THAT NONE OF US WANT TO
HEAR.
>> Stewart: THE TIMELINE FOR
NEGOTIATIONS HAS ALREADY BEEN
EXTENDED TWICE AND THE NEXT
DEADLINE IS LATE MARCH.
IN JAPAN, AN UNPRECEDENTED MOVE
TO PREVENT A JOURNALIST FROM
TRAVELING TO SYRIA TO REPORT ON
THE REFUGEE SITUATION THERE.
OFFICIALS SEIZED THE PASSPORT OF
FREELANCE PHOTOGRAPHER YUICHI
SUGIMOTO, SAYING THE GOVERNMENT
ACTED TO PROTECT THE MAN'S LIFE.
THIS AFTER TWO JAPANESE HOSTAGES
WERE RECENTLY BEHEADED BY ISIS
MILITANTS.
NEW STATISTICS REVEAL THAT INDIA
AND CHINA ARE IN THE GRIPS OF A
MASSIVE AIR POLLUTION CRISIS.
THE ECONOMIST REPORTS THAT CO2
EMISSIONS HAVE SKYROCKETED IN
CHINA AND STEADILY INCREASED IN
INDIA OVER THE LAST TWO DECADES
SHORTENING THE LIVES OF MILLIONS
OF PEOPLE.
TRAFFIC FUMES, INDUSTRIAL
EMISSIONS, CONSTRUCTION DUST AND
BURNING TRASH ARE REPORTEDLY TO
BLAME FOR THE DEATHS OF NEARLY
700,000 PEOPLE IN INDIA EACH
YEAR.
EXPERTS SAY THE DEATH TOLL WILL
GO UP IN THE COMING DECADES.
IN CHINA, THE AVERAGE PERSON'S
LIFE IS MORE THAN FIVE YEARS
SHORTER BECAUSE OF THE FOUL AIR.
HERE IN THE U.S., UNITED
STEELWORKERS ARE GAINING
MOMENTUM IN THEIR FIRST
NATIONWIDE STRIKE IN DECADES.
LAST NIGHT, WORKERS AT TWO B.P.
PLANTS IN OHIO AND INDIANA
ANNOUNCED THEY'D JOIN THE
GROWING STRIKE AGAINST OIL
REFINERIES.
ABOUT 3,800 WORKERS LAUNCHED THE
WORK STOPPAGE FEBRUARY FIRST.
THE U.S.W. SAYS NEGOTIATIONS
BROKE DOWN OVER HEALTH CARE
BENEFITS AND HIRING NON-UNION
WORKERS.
A SPOKESPERSON AT B.P. SAYS THE
COMPANY PROVIDES GOOD WAGES BUT
NEEDS FLEXIBILITY IN HIRING.
WASHINGTON D.C. IS FAST
APPROACHING A RECORD-BREAKING
NUMBER OF THE HOMELESS LIVING IN
EMERGENCY SHELTERS.
CITY WORKERS AND VOLUNTEERS
SPREAD OUT ACROSS THE CAPITOL
WEDNESDAY FOR AN ANNUAL COUNT OF
HOMELESS PEOPLE IN THE CITY.
THEY FOUND 4,000 LIVING IN
EMERGENCY SHELTERS.
THAT NUMBER HAS GROWN BY MORE
THAN 1,500 OVER THE PAST FOUR
WEEKS.
D.C. LEADERS HAVE BEEN FORCED TO
FIND MORE HOTEL ROOMS AS THE
SHELTERS FILL UP.
ADVOCATES SAY AT LEAST 100
FAMILIES SEEK SHELTER EVERY TIME
THE TEMPERATURE DROPS BELOW
FREEZING.
ONE OF THE WINNINGEST COACHES IN
COLLEGE BASKETBALL HAS DIED.
COACH DEAN SMITH LED THE
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM FOR 36
YEARS AND WAS KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE GAME AS AN INNOVATOR.
HE HAD ONLY ONE LOSING SEASON IN
THREE DECADES AND COACHED SOME
OF THE GAMES BIGGEST NAMES
INCLUDING MICHAEL JORDAN WHO
SAID OF SMITH, "HE WAS MY
MENTOR, MY TEACHER, MY SECOND
FATHER."
WHEN SMITH RETIRED IN 1997 HE
HAD MORE WINS-- 879-- THAN ANY
COACH IN MEN'S DIVISION-ONE
HISTORY.
WINNING TWO N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT
TITLES AND COACHING THE U.S.
TEAM TO A GOLD MEDAL IN THE 1976
OLYMPICS BEFORE BEING INDUCTED
INTO THE NAISMITH MEMORIAL
BASKETBALL HALL OF FAME IN 1983.
DEAN SMITH WAS 83-YEARS-OLD.
WE TURN NOW TO OUR CONTINUING
SERIES OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THE WAR ON ISIS.
THIS WEEK BROUGHT MORE NEWS IN
THAT FIGHT, ON MONDAY, THE
ISLAMIC MILITANT GROUP RELEASED
A VIDEO SHOWING THE KILLING OF A
JORDANIAN PILOT THE IT HAD HELD
CAPTIVE SINCE DECEMBER.
ISIS ALSO CLAIMED THAT KAYLA
JEAN MUELLER, AN AMERICAN WOMAN
IT HAD ALSO BEEN HOLDING
CAPTIVE, WAS KILLED IN A
JORDANIAN AIRSTRIKE.
AND TODAY, JOHN ALLEN, THE
RETIRED MARINE CORPS GENERAL WHO
HEADS THE US LED COALITION FIGHT
AGAINST ISIS HAD THIS TO SAY:
>> ISIL IS AT AN ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT LEVEL THAN AL-QAEDA
WAS.
BETTER ORGANIZED.
ITS COMMAND AND CONTROL IS
BETTER.
WE SHOULD TAKE IT VERY
SERIOUSLY.
TO HELP US ANALYZE THESE
DEVELOPMENTS, WE ARE JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON D.C. BY ANTHONY
CORDESMAN OF THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES, MR. CORDESMAN
PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND WAS THE DIRECTOR
OF INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT IN
THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.
>> MR. CORDESMAN, I WOULD
LIKE TO START WITH JORDAN
WHERE THERE HAS BEEN
SIGNIFICANT ACTION.
FIRST THE EXECUTION OF TWO
MEMBERS OF ISIS, AND OF
COURSE KING ABDULLAH SAYING
THAT HE WILL CONTINUE TO USE
HIS MILITARY UNTIL, QUOTE,
THEY RUN OUT OF FUEL AND
BULLET ITS.
PLEASE TELL ME WHAT IS
JORDAN'S CAPACITY IN THIS
MANNER TO FIGHT ISIS?
>> IT'S VERY EFFECTIVE AIR
FORCE.
IT FLIES THE IF H 16, IT HAS
MODERN AIR SURFACE ORDNANCE
TO CARRY OUT PRECISION
STRIKES.
IT HAS THE CAPABILITY TO GET
TARGETING INFORMATION FROM
U.S. INTELLIGENCE
CAPABILITIES.
AND TARGETING IS ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL TO THIS KIND OF
OPERATION.
SO WHEN JORDAN COMMITS A
LARGE NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT, IT
REALLY DOES MEAN SOMETHING.
>> TELL ME WHY TARGETING IS
CRITICAL.
>> WELL, ONE OF THE PROBLEMS
YOU HAVE AT ANY TIME IS WHEN
YOU HAVE A DISPERSED
NONSTATE ACTOR, A FORCE THAT
DOESN'T WEAR UNIFORMS, THAT
DOESN'T HAVE A LOT OF HEAVY
MILITARY I
EQUIPMENT,-- EQUIPMENT, YOU
NEED ADVANCED INTELLIGENCE
ASSETS TO KNOW WHERE THEY
ARE AND THEN YOU ALSO NEED
TO KNOW IF YOU ARE GOING TO
STRIKE AT THEM, YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO STRIKE AT
CIVILIANS.
YOUR TARGET IS REALLY GOING
TO BE THE ENEMY.
THERE ALSO IS THE PROBLEM OF
HOW DO YOU LOCATE THE MOST
IMPORTANT TARGETS AND THAT
REQUIRES THE KIND OF
SATELLITE DATA, THE KIND OF
SATELLITE INTELLIGENCE
CAPABILITY THAT REALLY ONLY
THE UNITED STATES CAN
PROVIDE.
>> KNOWING WHERE THE
LEADERSHIP IS DO WE KNOW,
HOW DO WE KNOW AND IF WE
DON'T, HOW DO WE FIND OUT?
>> WE USE A PROCESS WHICH
SOME PEOPLE CALL FUSION,
YOU'RE NOT RELYING SIMPLY ON
THINGS LIKE UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLES, YOU'RE NOT RELYING
ON PHOTO OR IMAGERY
SATELLITES OR ANY OTHER ONE
INDICATOR ALONE.
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR PATTERNS.
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A SLIP,
WHEN THEY SEND A MESSAGE
THEY SHOULDN'T SEND.
YOU'RE TRACKING MOVEMENTS IN
AND OUT.
AND YOU'RE TYING THESE
TOGETHER IN NEAR REALTIME SO
YOU CAN PROVIDE THE
TARGETING DATA FOR AIRCRAFT
OR FOR THESE UNMANNED COMBAT
AERIAL VEHICLES.
>> I CAN REMEMBER BEING IN A
BACKGROUND SESSION WITH A
MILITARY ANALYST WHO ONCE
SAID ABOUT AL QAEDA, THAT
YOU CAN'T THINK OF IT AS
WHAT YOU THINK OF AN ARMY.
YOU HAVE TO THINK OF IT AS A
MOVEMENT.
IS ISIS THE SAME?
>> I THINK IT'S ALWAYS
DIFFICULT TO DESCRIBE.
IT'S NOT I-- NOT A REGULAR
FIGHTING FORCE, BUT UNLIKE
TERRORIST GROUPS, IT CAN
FIGHT.
AND IT COULD DEFEAT THE
IRAQI ARMY.
SO IT IS SOMEWHERE IN
BETWEEN AN ARMY AND A
TERRORIST FORCE.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT JORDAN'S
EFFECTIVENESS.
HOW ABOUT OTHER PLAYERS IN
THE REGION?
>> WELL, AT THIS POINT IN
TIME WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO
THE THREATS THAT THE ISLAMIC
STATE OR ISIS FACES, IT'S
LARGELY AIR POWER.
YOU HAVE SOME GOOD AIR
FORCES, IT ISN'T JUST JORDAN,
IT IS THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATE.
MOST OF THE ARAB FORCES ARE
QUITE CAPABLE.
CERTAINLY OUR NATO ALLIES,
FORCES LIKE AUSTRALIA ARE
VERY EFFECTIVE.
BUT THE KEY PROBLEMS ARE
THAT THE IRAQI ARMY IS STILL
VERY WEAK.
IT HAS NOT RECOVERED FROM
THE DICTATORSHIP OR ALMOST
DICTATORSHIP OF MALIKI.
IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE AT
LEAST MONTHS MORE BEFORE IT
CAN HAVE EVEN LIMITED
OFFENSIVE CAPABILITY.
AND WHEN WE COME TO SYRIA WE
NEED TO REMEMBER A LOT OF
THE FIGHTING IS THERE.
THE FACT IS THAT IT ISN'T
JUST THE ISLAMIC STATE.
THE FORCE THAT DEFEATED THE
REBELS THAT WE HAD BACKED
MOST AND SHIPPED ARMS TO IS
THE AL NOUSSRA FRONT WHICH
IS ALLIED TO AL QAEDA.
ALMOST ALL OF THE MOVEMENTS
THAT ARE REBEL MOVEMENTS
THAT ARE ACTIVE IN THE FIELD
HAVE SOME SORT OF ISLAMIST
CHARACTER.
SO THE PROBLEM THERE IS IT
ISN'T JUST THE AL NOUSSRA
FRONT, IT'S BOTH THE REBELS
AND TO SOME EXTENT, OF
COURSE, THE ASSAD FORCES.
IT'S NOT JUST ONE THREAT
WE'RE DEALING WITH.
>> ANTHONY CORDESMAN, THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
ANALYSIS.
>> A PLEASURE.
>> Stewart: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
OUR ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH REPORTS
FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
LAST MONTH'S TERROR ATTACK AT A
KOSHER STORE IN PARIS CALLED
ATTENTION TO RISING ANTI-
SEMITISM IN FRANCE AND THE
GROWING NUMBER OF INCIDENTS
THROUGHOUT EUROPE.
IN RESPONSE TO THAT TERROR
ATTACK, AND THE ONE ON THE
FRENCH SATIRICAL MAGAZINE,
FRENCH AUTHORITIES DEPLOYED
THOUSANDS OF TROOPS TO BOOST
SECURITY AT SENSITIVE SITES,
INCLUDING BOTH MOSQUES AND
SYNAGOGUES.
BUT THIS WEEK, ATTACKERS SLASHED
THREE SOLDIERS GUARDING A JEWISH
COMMUNITY CENTER IN NICE.
FRENCH AUTHORITIES BELIEVE A
SMALL NUMBER OF RADICALIZED
YOUNG MEN FROM NORTH AFRICA ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR A DIS-
PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF THE ANTI-
SEMITIC INCIDENTS IN FRANCE.
EVEN SO, SOME JEWS IN FRANCE
FEEL UNDER SIEGE.
AND A RECORD NUMBER ARE FLEEING
TO ISRAEL.
SPECIAL NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN HIMEL TRAVELED TO FRANCE,
EGYPT AND SWEDEN BEFORE FILING
THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: THIS IS
GARGES-LEÈS-GONESSE, A PARTISAN
SUBURB, WHERE THE SYNAGOGUE
SHAARE RAHAMIM WAS BUILT MORE
THAN 60 YEARS AGO.
IT'S NOW SMACK IN THE MIDDLE OF
WHAT HAS BECOME A MOSTLY MUSLIM
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY.
JEWS HERE SAY THEY HAVE BEEN
REGULARLY SUBJECTED TO
ANTISEMITIC ATTACKS.
>> (translated): IT'S A REAL
BUNKER, BUT THIS IS THE ONLY WAY
TO REASSURE THE CONGREGANTS.
OTHERWISE WE'D HAVE TO MOVE OUT
OF THE SYNAGOGUE.
>> Reporter: THIS APARTMENT
BLOCK IS REALLY ON THE FRONTLINE
OF A CONFLICT BETWEEN THIS
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY AND THE JEWS
THAT WORSHIP IN THE SYNAGOGUE TO
MY RIGHT.
IT'S FROM THIS APARTMENT BLOCK
THAT A MOLOTOV COCKTAIL HAS BEEN
THROWN AT THE SYNAGOGUE, ROCKS
HAVE BEEN THROWN AT THE
SYNAGOGUE, EVEN A BULLET HAS
BEEN FIRED FROM THIS DIRECTION.
JEWS AT THE SYNAGOGUE TOLD US
THEY TYPICALLY SUMMON THE POLICE
A FEW TIMES A WEEK.
AND WHEN THE POLICE COME, THEY
DOCUMENT THE NEW GRAFFITI:
SWASTIKAS, "SALE JUIF," WHICH
MEANS "DIRTY JEW."
>> IT'S TRUE THAT IT'S NOT THE
BEST PLACE FOR A JEWISH
COMMUNITY.
BUT WE'RE HERE, SO WE HAVE TO
GET ON WITH IT.
>> Reporter: EVEN BEFORE THE
RECENT ATTACK ON THE KOSHER
MARKET IN PARIS, ANTISEMITIC
PROTESTS WERE INTENSIFYING.
THERE WERE A NUMBER OF JEWISH
STORE OWNERS WHO WERE FORCED TO
LOCK THEMSELVES IN DURING ONE
PROTEST, AFTER ISRAEL'S WAR WITH
HAMAS LAST SUMMER IN GAZA.
BETWEEN JANUARY AND JULY 2014,
ACCORDING TO DATA GATHERED BY
JEWISH GROUPS AND THE
FRENCH GOVERNMENT, THE NUMBER OF
ANTISEMITIC ACTS IN FRANCE
NEARLY DOUBLED COMPARED TO THE
SAME PERIOD IN 2013.
THE SAME FIGURES SHOW HALF OF
ALL RACIST ATTACKS IN FRANCE
TARGET JEWS, EVEN THOUGH THEY
NUMBER LESS THAN ONE PERCENT OF
THE POPULATION.
AND YEARS AGO AT ANOTHER PROTEST
IN PARIS, MUSLIMS DEMONSTRATED,
CHANTING "KHAYBAR YAYAHUD,"
WHICH MEANS THAT MOHAMMED'S ARMY
WILL CRUSH THE JEWS AS THEY DID
IN KHAYBAR IN THE SEVENTH
CENTURY.
RADICAL ISLAMIC ACTIVISTS HAD
ATTACKED JEWS YEARS BEFORE THE
RECENT KOSHER MARKET KIDNAPPINGS
AND MURDERS.
IN 2012, THAT BUILDUP OF HATRED
AGAINST JEWS LED TO A BLOODY
ONSLAUGHT PERPETRATED BY A
RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORIST.
MOHAMMED MERAH, A FRENCH RADICAL
MUSLIM SHOT AND KILLED A RABBI,
HIS TWO SMALL SONS, AND
AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD GIRL AT THE
ENTRANCE OF A JEWISH SCHOOL IN
TOULOUSE, A CITY ABOUT 420 MILES
SOUTH OF PARIS.
IT WAS ONE OF THE WORST
ANTISEMITIC ATTACKS IN EUROPE
SINCE WORLD WAR II.
>> IF YOU COME TO A JEWISH
SCHOOL AND YOU SHOOT A JEWISH
CHILDREN ON HER HEAD, YOU
CANNOT BE SOMETHING ELSE THAN AN
EXTRAORDINARY ANTISEMITE.
AND THE QUESTION OF ANTISEMITISM
WAS SOMEHOW BLURRED BY THE IDEA
THAT WE SHOULD NOT STIGMATIZE
ANY POPULATION.
>> Reporter: JEWISH LEADERS
POINT OUT THE FRENCH MUSLIM
COMMUNITY IS NOT AT WAR WITH
FRENCH JEWRY AND THEY NOTE
MUSLIM LEADERS CONDEMNED THE
ATTACKS.
>> MUSLIM RELIGION IS NOT
RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS MURDER BUT
RADICAL ISLAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
THIS MURDER AND THIS MURDER IS
AN ANTISEMITIC MURDER.
>> Reporter: SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD
TOMAS WAS AT THE SCHOOL DURING
THE ATTACK AND IS NOW TOO AFRAID
TO WEAR HIS JEWISH PRAYER CAP,
HIS YARMULKE, OUTSIDE OF THE
HOUSE.
HE VIVIDLY RECALLS THE DAY OF
THE ATTACK.
>> I SEE PEOPLE BLEEDING, PEOPLE
CRYING, SCREAMING, BUT I'M STILL
SHOCKED.
IT'S THE WORST DAY OF MY LIFE.
>> Reporter: THOUGH HE AND HIS
FAMILY STILL OBSERVE THE SABBATH
EVERY WEEKEND INSIDE THEIR HOME,
HIS FATHER, MARC, FEARS IT MAY
BE TOO DANGEROUS FOR HIS FAMILY
TO REMAIN IN FRANCE.
MORE THAN 70 YEARS AGO, MARC
FRIEDMAN'S GRANDMOTHER WAS TAKEN
FROM THIS HOME BY NAZIS AND SENT
TO A CONCENTRATION CAMP.
>> SHE HAD BEEN DEPORTED TO
BERGEN BELSEN, AND SHE SURVIVE
AND SHE CAME BACK.
I BUY THIS HOUSE.
TO BE IN THE SAME HOUSE, YOU
KNOW?
BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: NOW FRIEDMAN FEARS
HE WILL BE FORCED TO LEAVE HIS
HOME BECAUSE OF RESURGENT
ANTISEMITISM.
>> WE THINK WE ARE FRENCH PEOPLE
BEFORE TO BE JEWISH.
BUT NO, WE ARE JEWISH.
>> Reporter: FRIEDMAN AND MANY
JEWS ARE CONVINCED THE SOURCE OF
THIS ANTISEMITISM COMES FROM
ANGER, PARTIALLY FROM ECONOMIC
HARDSHIPS AND SOCIAL EXCLUSION.
BUT THEY ARE ALSO WORRIED THAT
IT IS BEING GENERATED BY A
MILITANT ISLAMIC IDEOLOGY.
ACCORDING TO POLICE REPORTS,
MOHAMMED MERAH, THE ASSAILANT IN
THE SCHOOL ATTACK, STUDIED
SALAFISM, AN ULTRA-CONSERVATIVE
FORM OF ISLAM WHICH HAS A WIDE
FOLLOWING IN EGYPT.
SHEIK MOHAMMED ALI SULEIMAN IS
AN EGYPTIAN SALAFIST AND SCHOLAR
WHOM WE INTERVIEWED IN
CAIRO.
ACCORDING TO THE SHEIK, THERE
WILL BE AN INEVITABLE
APOCALYPTIC SHOWDOWN.
>> MUSLIMS AND JEWS WILL FIGHT
UNTIL THE DAY OF JUDGMENT.
IT IS A RELIGIOUS WAR BETWEEN
MUSLIMS AND JEWS.
>> Reporter: THE SHEIK TELLS US
A HADITH, A SAYING THAT COMES
FROM THE PROPHET MOHAMMED.
SAYINGS ARE INTERPRETED ONE WAY
OR ANOTHER BY VARIOUS MUSLIM
GROUPS.
>> THE JEW WILL HIDE BEHIND THE
STONE AND THE TREE, SO THE
STONE AND THE TREE WILL CALL OUT
"OH MUSLIM, SERVANT OF GOD, A
JEW IS BEHIND ME, SO COME AND
KILL HIM."
>> Reporter: IT'S THIS RADICAL
MILITANT ISLAMIC IDEOLOGY,
PROFESSING A GENOCIDE OF JEWS,
THAT INSPIRED MOHAMMED MERAH,
THE ASSAILANT IN THE SCHOOL
ATTACK, AND THE ASSAILANT WHO
STRUCK AT THE KOSHER SUPERMARKET
IN PARIS.
RABBI SHAAR KESSELMAN'S FATHER-
IN-LAW ESTABLISHED THE SCHOOL
ATTACKED IN TOULOUSE.
KESSELMAN IS NOW THE RABBI OF
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY IN MALMOÖ,
SWEDEN.
HE SAYS THERE HAS BEEN A NUMBER
OF ANTISEMITIC ACTS NEAR HIS
SYNAGOGUE.
THAT'S WHY THE RABBI CALLS THE
ROAD IN FRONT OF HIS SYNAGOGUE
THE "STREET OF HATE."
>> CARS DRIVING BY, PEOPLE
ROLLING DOWN THE WINDOW,
SHOUTING ANTISEMITIC REMARKS.
THERE HAVE BEEN INCIDENTS OF
PEOPLE THROWING THINGS AT ME.
AND I HAD A CAR TRY TO RUN ME
AND MY WIFE OVER ONCE, WHICH WAS
QUITE A TRAUMATIC INCIDENT.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THOSE WHICH
STAND BEHIND THESE INCIDENTS ARE
IMMIGRANTS, OR PEOPLE WITH
IMMIGRANT BACKGROUNDS.
I BELIEVE THAT THE TRAUMA WHICH
EUROPE HAS EXPERIENCED AFTER THE
HOLOCAUST, IS STARTING TO FADE
OUT.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS ANY NEW
FORM OF ANTISEMITISM, I THINK
IT'S A DIFFERENT FACE, A
DIFFERENT COVER, BUT IT IS THE
SAME OLD JEW HATRED.
IF A PERSON'S HATE COULD TAKE
THEM SO FAR TO START CURSING AND
THROWING THINGS AT A TOTAL
STRANGER JUST BECAUSE HE IS
JEWISH, FOR ME THAT SAYS THAT
ALL THE NORMAL BOUNDARIES AND
LIMITATIONS, OF WHAT'S ACCEPTED
IN A CIVILIZED SOCIETY, HAVE
FALLEN.
>>LEARN MORE ABOUT WHY SOME
JEWS ARE LEAVING FRANCE TO LIVE
IN ISRAEL.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: THIS WEDNESDAY'S
POWERBALL JACKPOT HAS ALREADY
SPIKED TO MORE THAN $450 MILLION
AND WILL PROBABLY GROW OVER THE
NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS.
THE HUGE PRIZE IS EXPECTED TO
BOOST SALES THIS WEEK, BUT
TICKET BUYING HAS REPORTEDLY
DROPPED 35% SINCE 2013, AND
THAT'S PUTTING STATE BUDGETS ON
THE LOSING END OF THE LOTTERY
SYSTEM.
JOINING ME FROM WASHINGTON D.C.
TO TALK ABOUT THE PITFALLS OF
POWERBALL IS BEN LEUBSDORF WITH
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL."
>> SO BEN, HERE'S THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION, WHY IS THE
DECLINE IN PARTICIPATES?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE BIGGEST
JACKPOT WE'VE SEEN SINCE
DECEMBER 2013 FOR ANY
LOTTERY GAME.
AND THAT'S WHY PEOPLE AREN'T
BUYING TICKETS.
PEOPLE BUY TICKETS, THEY GET
OFFICE POOLS, PEOPLE COME
OFF THE SIDELINES WHO
WEREN'T REGULAR PLAYERS WHEN
YOU HAVE A BIG EYE-POPPING
JACKPOT LIKE THIS AND WE
HAVEN'T HAD ONE IN A WHILE.
THAT'S THE MAIN REASON THAT
POWERBALL SALES DROP 35% IN
2014 FROM THE PRIOR YEAR.
IN 2013, 2012, WE HAD THIS
STRING OF REALLY BIG
JACKPOTS FOR MEGAMILLIONS AN
POWERBALL AND THAT GOT
PEOPLE PLAYING THE GAME.
NOW WHEN WE HAVEN'T HAD
THOSE BIG NUMBERS, PEOPLE
HAVEN'T BEEN AS IMPRESSED
WITH AN $80 MILLION JACKPOT
AS THEY ARE WITH SOMETHING
ABOVE 200, ABOVE $300
MILLION.
>> EXPLAIN TO ME HOW THAT
DIRECTLY RESULTS IN STATE
BUDGETS HAVING A PROBLEM.
>> WELL, 44 STATES RELY ON
LOTTERY REVENUE AS PART OF
THEIR REVENUE PICTURE.
AND IT'S NOT THE BIGGEST
PART OF THEIR REVENUE
STRUCTURE, TAXES, FEDERAL
GRANTS, THOSE ARE STILL THE
BIG PARTS.
BUT THEY RELY ON THIS MONEY
IN ORDER TO IN MANY CASES
PAY FOR EDUCATION OR OTHER
EXPENSES.
SO WHEN YOU HAVE A BIG
REDUCTION IN POWERFUL BALL
PLAYING, YOU'VE GOT STATE
LOTTERIES SAYING WE'VE GOT
TO MAKE UP THAT REVENUE
SOMEHOW, SO SOME STATES,
VIRGINIA IN PARTICULAR HAS
TWEAKED THEIR-- TO ROLL OUT
MORE SCRATCH OUT GAMES,
INSTANT WIN GAMES TO MAKE
THAT UP LOST REVENUE TO MAKE
SURE THEY DON'T HAVE A
SHORTFALL WHEN IT COMES TO
TIME TO SETTLE THEIR BUDGET.
>> SO IF YOU CAN'T COUNT ON
PARTICIPANTS IN THE LOTTERY,
WHY DO STATES HAVE THIS AS
PART OF THEIR BUDGET FOR POLIO?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, BY ITS
NATURE A RANDOM CHANCE THAT
THESE DRAWINGS ARE PRETTY
RANDOM.
SO WHEN WE HAD A HOT STREAK
IN 2012, 2013, STATES WERE
RAKING IN A LOT OF REVENUE.
NOW WE'VE HAD A DRY STREAK
FOR A WHILE.
AND THEY HAVEN'T BEEN SEEING
IT.
BUT I THINK MOST OFFICIALS
AREN'T TOO WORRIED THAT THIS
IS GOING TO CONTINUE.
THIS COULD BE THE BEGINNING
OF ANOTHER STRING OF BIG
JACKPOTS.
>> IT HAS BEEN SERIOUS FOR
CERTAIN STATES.
ARKANSAS FOR EXAMPLE HAD ONE
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM THAT HAD
A $5 MILLION DEFICIT.
IS THERE ANYTHING THAT
STATES CAN DO TO PREVENT
THIS FROM HAPPENING TO THEM?
>> WELL, SOME STATES ARE
VERY CONSERVATIVE IN THEIR
REVENUE ESTIMATES.
I SPOKE TO THE HEAD OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA LOTTERY WHO
SAYS THAT THEY BUDGET
FOR-- THEY ASSUME THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
STANDARD NUMBER OF PLAYERS.
THEY DON'T COUNT ON A BIG
JACKPOT TO BRING IN LOTS OF
NEW PLAYERS, IF THEY DOCK,
SHE SAID, THAT'S GRAVY,
THAT'S GREAT FOR THEM.
BUT THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
IN TROUBLE IF THEY DON'T
HAVE BIG JACKPOTS
MATERIALIZED.
>> LEN LUBES DORF FROM THE
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL",
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR
SUNDAY.
>> Stewart: FOR DECADES, TWO
BRONZE SCULPTURES LANGUISHED IN
DUSTY OBSCURITY IN THE CORNER OF
A CAMBRIDGE MUSEUM.
BEN CHAPMAN HAS THE STORY.
>> THEIR MAGNIFICENCE HAS NEVER
BEEN IN DOUBT.
BUT FOR CENTURIES, THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF WHO CREATED
THEM HAS BEEN LOST.
NOW REMOVED FROM OBSCURITY AND
POLISHED UP FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY,
THEY COULD BE TWO OF THE WORLD'S
MOST SIGNIFICANT SCULPTURES.
>> MICHELANGELO WAS ONE OF
THE GREATEST IF NOT THE
GREATEST SCULPTURES EVER TO
HAVE LIVERED AND WE KNOW
THAT HE MADE WORKS IN BRONZE
BUT NONE OF THEM APPEAR TO
HAVE SURVIVED.
THERE ARE TWO, NOT ONE BUT
TWO, THERE IS A BIG GAP IN
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF HIS
GENIUS.
>> THE MYSTERY OF THE
CONSUME TURE BEGAN TO
UNRAVEL WHEN RESEARCHERS SAW
THIS COPY A SKETCH BY ONE
OF HIS APPRENTICES SHOWING A
PANTHER AND ITS RIDER.
THEY FOUND THE STYLE MATCHED
HIS WORK OTHER WORK
INCLUDING THE SISTINE CHAPEL
COMPLETED AROUND THE SAME
TIME.
BUT THE GREATEST TEST MAY BE
YET TO COME AS THE PUBLIC
AND THE ART WORLD ARE
INVITED TO ADMIRE AND POUR
OVER THESE SKUPT TURES, LOOK
AT THE EVIDENCE AND DECIDE
FOR THEMSELVES WHETHER THEY
REALLY ARE MICHELANGELO'S
WORK.
>> WHY DID IT MATTER?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THESE
BRONZES ARE MAGNIFICENT
THINGS.
THEY WERE DESERVED-- WE'RE
CURIOUS, WE'RE INQUISITIVE,
WE WANT TO KNOW WHO MADE
THEM AND WHY, YOU KNOW, WHAT
THEY ARE USED FOR.
>> FOR ART HISTORIANS THAT
INFORMATION IS INVALUABLE.
FOR THE OWNER OF THESE
SCULPTURES HE WILL FIND OUT
FOR SURE IF THEY ARE TO BE
ATTRIBUTED OFFICIALLY TO
MICHELANGELO IN THE SUMMER,
IT REALLY IS PRICELESS.
>> BEN CHAPMAN,
CIRCUMSTANCES TV NEWS,
CAMBRIDGE.
>> FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
GREECE IS LAYING OUT A PLAN
TO PULL HIS COUNTRY OUT OF
DEBT.
THE PRIME MINISTER ANNOUNCED
TODAY HE WANTS TO
RENEGOTIATE THE COUNTRY'S
MASSIVE DEBT DEAL.
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE AND
OFFER FREE ELECTRICITY TO
THE POOREST CITIZENS.
BUT EU LEADERS WANT HIM TO
STEP UP AUSTERITY MEASURES
IN EXCHANGE FOR THE RECENT
240 BILLION EURO BAILOUT.
THE U.S. IS URGING THE EUROZONE
LEADERS TO COMPROMISE.
THAT IS IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART, THANKS
FOR WATCHING.